In this video, we're going to go over
the basic building blocks of a relational
database and learn how to make
entity relationship diagrams.
Remember I said that databases are
collections of tables that each have their
own unified theme.
Another thing that I mentioned that we
will really emphasize more strongly
over the next few videos is that
these tables are linked by one or
more columns with the same values.
These columns allow you to
connect rows in different tables.
As an example, we can see here
that the Customer Contact column
of the Orders table and the ContactID
column of the Customer Contact table
are populated by the same types of values.
Whenever there is a value of cid1 in
a row of the Customer Contact column of
the orders table.
We can find all the information about that
Customer Contact by looking up cid1 in
the ContactID column of
the Customer Contact table.
Figuring out exactly what
information you want to collect and
exactly how you can organize information
to link tables, can be tricky.
So database architects often draw diagrams
called entity relationship diagrams or
Diagrams to communicate the structure of
the database they intend to implement to
the rest of their team before
they actually make the database.
This is what an Diagram might look like.
The person who made this
one color coated theirs so
that it kind of looks like a bunch
of flowers at least to my eye.
Normally, they look like
a collection of ovals,
rectangles and
diamonds collected by lines.
Clearly, Diagrams are not fine art.
What Diagrams are supposed to
represent are the conceptual
relationships in your data.
What is related to what?
And how?
You will see,
even if you never design
a database in your life,
being able to read these diagrams can be
very helpful for writing tricky queries.
In addition, looking at lots of Diagrams
to get a sense of how different data and
databases can be organized,
will help you build an intuition for
the types of data relationships you
will work with in your own databases.
Let's dive in and learn what
the pieces of these diagrams mean.
The boxes in the Diagram
are called Entities.
They represent categories of data
your database will keep track of.
Each box is one category.
Eventually, each entity will probably
become a table when the database is made.
The ovals in the Diagram
are called Attributes.
These represent aspects of each category
or entity that will be recorded.
Attributes will likely become the columns
in the table that will be built around
that entity.
Each attribute in the Diagram has to
be connected to at least one entity.
Further, according to the rules of set
theory, each attribute must be unique for
that entity.
So you shouldn't,
in theory at least, have two college start
dates in your student entity, for example.
Let's step away from the Diagrams for
a moment to discuss more terminology.
Each time you collect data
relevant to an entity,
those data are collectively
called an entity instance.
You can think of entity instances
as the rows in a data table.
The most important attribute of the entity
is the attribute that has a unique
value for each entity instance.
Formally, they are called
Unique Attributes.
Informally, they are also sometimes
called unique keys or unique identifiers.
Unique attributes or keys or
identifiers, in table form,
would be a column that has a different
unique value for every single row.
They're like the ID columns we saw earlier
that allow us to link tables together.
Every entity must have at least one
attribute that serves as a unique key or
identifier.
With that vocabulary under a belt we
can now return back to our diagrams.
You indicate unique
attributes in an entity by
underlining their title in the oval.
In our diagram, StudentID is
the unique attribute for STUDENT, and
CollegeName is the unique attribute for
COLLEGE.
This means that every STUDENT will
have their own unique StudentID, and
every COLLEGE will have
its own unique name.
If there are multiple attributes
underlined in an entity,
any one of them could potentially
be used as a unique key or
identifier to link the table with other
tables when the database is implemented.
Every entity or
category has to be related to at least
one other entity in the database.
You use a diamond and lines to represent
and describe these relationships.
The word in the diamond spells out
the nature of the relationship.
And the diagram shown here,
STUDENT attend COLLEGE.
Now here's where things
get really important for
an analyst who will be querying
a database tree for information.
Each relationship between entities in
the Diagram shows how many instances of
one entity are associated with how
many instances of another entity.
If you thing back to when you were asking
questions about the EGGER'S ROAST COFFEE
spreadsheet.
Many of our questions about whether data
entry was correct or an error could have
been answered if we knew the nature of
the relationships between the columns.
For example, does each company
have one contact person, or
multiple contact people?
Turns out that there
more than one by the way.
Is each order supplied from exactly
one distribution center, or
can there be multiple
distribution centers?
How many addresses can be associated with
a given EGGER'S ROAST COFFEE employee?
These limitations on the relationships
between two entities, which,
once the entities have
been made into tables,
also ends up meaning the relationships
between the values in the columns that
link the two tables together,
are called cardinality constraints.
And they're indicated by the little
symbols next to the entity rectangles
in our Diagram.
There are a couple of
different formats of Diagrams.
But in the format we
are using in this course,
the symbol closest to the rectangle
represents the Maximum number of instances
of the entity that can be
associated with another entity.
And the symbol farthest away from the
rectangle, represents the Minimum number
of instances of that entity that can
be associated with another entity.
To understand the relationships between
entities in the arrow diagrams that have
this format.
All we start from one entity,
follow the connecting line and
then interpret the symbols
closes to the second entity.
So if we start with college
in our diagram here,
we can see that each COLLEGE
is attended by students.
These symbols here are the ones
closest to students.
So they are the ones we will use to
interpret relationship in this direction.
If the symbol next to an entity is
a straight line, that means one.
If the symbol looks like a bird's foot,
that means more than one.
Remember that the symbol farthest
away from the second entity indicates
the Minimum while the symbol closest to
the second entity equals the Maximum.
So the way we would read this diagram
is that, each COLLEGE must be attended
by at least one STUDENT but
can be attended by many students.
The way we would read the relationship
in the opposite direction is that each
students attends a minimum of 1 but
no more than 1 COLLEGE.
Sometimes the Diagrams provide more
specific cardinality constraints than just
one and many.
When they do, those constraints
are indicated by specific numbers in
parenthesis.
There are two important things
to know about the notation for
Specific Cardinality Constraints.
First, the numbers in parentheses take
precedence over the bar symbol in
the minimum constraint.
Second, and pay attention to this one
because it is potentially confusing,
the numbers in the parentheses
are always written with
the minimum number on the left and
the maximum number on the right.
In order to try and
be consistent with written languages
that always write from left to right.
Importantly, the numbers are always
written in this left to right direction
even if the numbers in parenthesis refer
to a relationship that is depicted from
the right to left direction.
I know, that's a little strange,
but let me show you what I mean.
If we read this Diagram in this
direction which is from right to left,
despite the fact that there is
a bar symbol that usually equals 1.
And despite the fact that the numbers
in parenthesis are written so
that the minimum number is on the left and
the maximum number is on the right.
We interpret the diagram to mean that each
college must be attended by a Minimum of
1,000 students and
a Maximum of 10,000 students.
One symbol to know about is the M which
I have also sometimes seen as an N.
It means Infinite.
If the 10,000 was replaced by an M or an
N, that would mean that the COLLEGE could
be attended by an infinite
number of students.
Another symbol to know
about is the circle.
The circle means Optional.
So if we read this Diagram in a left to
right direction, we would learn that each
STUDENT could attend as many as two
colleges, but doesn't have to attend any.
By the way, as a small detail, for this
interpretation to make sense, there would
have to be some other attributes
in the database not pictured here.
That could be used to explain, why the
STUDENT was relevant to the database even
if he or she wasn't attending a COLLEGE.
For example, perhaps they transferred nor
dropped out.
So now you understand how to read
the most fundamental parts of an Diagram.
In the next video,
we'll talk through some Diagrams,
that will give you a sense of some of the
more complicated organizations you might
see in databases you
work with in real life.